In this lesson we're going to see how to
raise our own
exceptions rather than rely on exceptions
being raised by the Python system.
A place where you might want to do this is
in a class
definition for when the user enters some
data wrong or some other event occurs.
We'll use that as a basis for
demonstrating how to raise our own
exceptions.
So let's start a new a program.
We're gonna call it raise.py.
What we're going to create is a class to
store rational numbers.
I'm not going to go very deep into the
implementation of the class.
I just want to show what happens when you
try to instantiate a rational
object with 0 as the denominator, which
will lead to a 0 division error.
So we'll go directly to the definition of
the constructor.
The constructor will consist of three
parameters, self,
x, and y, representing the numerator and
the denominator.
So in the body we'll write, numerator
equals x, then
we're going to say if, y is equal to 0.
In other words, if the denominator is
going to be
a 0, then we want to raise a 0 division
error.
So, what happens is if this raise
statement is executed within a try,
interval
throw that exception to the except class
in the try statement if there is one.
Let's finish off the definition.
Else denominator equals y.
That's all we're going to do.
That's enough to demonstrate how the ray
statement works.
So, let's try to create a rational number.
Let's create rational 4,1 and then let's
create another one.
Rat2 equals rational 3, 0.
And save the program.
And run it, and there we can see that a
zero division
error was raised when we tried to create a
deniminator of 0.
Let's go back to the program, and let's
put a try statement into the program.
And, what we want to do is, is we want to
add an except
clause so that we can print a statement,
other than just the raw error message.
So, we're going to say, cannot have a
rational number with 0 for denominator,
will be our little statement we're going
to print when the exception is raised.
So, lets go back, save the program again.
And lets rerun it.
And there we see that his time just like
before trying to
create a rational number with 0 as a
denominator causes an exception.
But this time our little statement is
printed rather than the raw error.
And again, that happened because we tried
to create a rational number with 0
as the denominator and when it didn't
work, then our print statement was
executed.
So with that we're finished with this
lesson on the raise exception
and now we're ready to move on to the
exercises for this chapter.